In this thesis, a relative value trading strategy is developed using a Markov-switching regime model and PCA.  The results are then compared and contrasted to a standard benchmark PCA strategy over both a fixed and expanding time window.  A thorough analysis on the crucial choice of the number of hidden states for the HMM used in the strategy is carried out, yielding an optimal result of 3 hidden states.  

The initial hypothesis of an improved risk-adjusted return for the HMM-PCA strategy, whilst maintaining minimial exposure to the market is corrobroated by the results for strategies where an expanding window is used.  However, HMM-PCA strategies with a fixed-window perform poorly in comparison to a standard PCA relative value strategy.  This suggests that to be able to accurately identify regimes and exploit the mispricing of contracts, a much larger window is required.

Although, the best performing strategies are unable to achieve a Sharpe ratio above 1 on the test data, the aim of this study is not to find an exceptionally profitable strategy, but rather to examine whether or not the HMM-PCA strategy is an improvement on well-studied PCA strategies.  A more profitable strategy could potentially easily be found by adjusting the size of the contracts purchased at each time step, given that the implementation in this study is relatively conservative.  

It is worth noting that although the results are shown to be uncorrelated to the movement within the market, it would be of great use to test this strategy across different decades within available data for agricultural futures prices.  To truly conclude whether or not the addition of a Markov-switching model provides an improvement in risk-adjusted returns, further analysis across different commodities and time periods is required.    

